Next, we'll count the number of
vertices and edges, define a min and
max function for Spark's reduce method,
computer the min and max degrees,
and compute the histogram data
of the degree of connectedness.
In this hands on,
we will cover the degree distribution of
the metros graph from
the first hands on exercise.
This will help you practice finding
the degrees of connectedness in a graph.
These numbers will be used for
plotting the visualizations in
the next hands on exercises.
The degree of a vertex is
the number of edges or
connections the vertex has to
other vertices in the graph.
In directed graphs,
each vertex has an in degree,
the number of edges
directed to the vertex.
In and out degree, the number of
edges directed away from the vertex.
The metros graph is an example
of a directed graph.
Each metropolis vertex has one
outgoing edge to a country vertex.
Each country vertex has one or more
incoming edges from metropolis vertices.
This will be a quiz question.
Starting again where we left off from
the previous hands-on exercise, first,
ensure your Cloudera VM is started, and
that you downloaded the dataset
examples of analytics.
The link is in the content for this week.
Use the numEdges attribute to print
the number of edges in metrosGraph.
As you can see the result is 65,
which matches the number of
lines in metro_country.csv.
Now use the numVertices
attribute to print the number
of vertices in metrosGraph.
As you can see the result is 93,
which matches the number of
lines in metro.csv65 plus the number
of lines in country.csv, 28.
Define the max and the min reduce
operation to compute the highest and
lowest degree vertex.
Let us find the vertex with
the most outgoing edges or
the vertex with the largest
out degree by passing the max
function to a reduced operation on
the out degrees of metrosGraph.
The result in this case is vertex
ID five with one outgoing edge.
The result could have been any metropolis
because every metropolis in this graph
has one outgoing edge to its country.
Let us find the vertex with
the most incoming edges, or
the vertex with the largest inDegree.
This is done the same way
as the previous example,
except you'll run the reduce operation
on the inDegrees of metrosGraph.
The result is VertexId 108
with 14 incoming edges.
Apply a filter to the metrosGraph
vertices to find out which vertex is 108.
The answer is the United States.
This means that the United States has
14 metropolises in the metros.csvfile.
We can also compute how many vertices have
one out going edge by applying a filter of
one to the outgoing degrees and
counting the results.
The result is 65 because there are 65
metropolises with one outgoing degree.
None of the countries have
any outgoing degrees.
Let us ignore whether or
not the edge is in or out, and
just find which vertex has the most edges.
Again, we will run the reduce
operation with the max function.
But this time we will run it on
metrosGraph's degrees attribute.
The result is 108 again
with 14 connections.
This means that the United States is
the most connected vertex in metrosGraph.
Finally, let us calculate
the histogram data of the degrees for
the countries in metrosGraph.
First, create a map that
only includes countries.
So create a filter to only include
the vertices with the vertex ID that is
greater than or equal to 100.
Then you will group the map
by the size of the degree and
sort the map from lowest
to highest degree.
The output shows six pairs in an array.
The first number is the number of edges,
and
the second number is the number of
vertices that have that number of edges.
In other words, the result of
the query shows that there are 18
countries with 1 metropolis,
4 countries with 2 metropolises,
2 countries with 3 metropolises,
2 countries with 5 metropolises,
1 country with 9 metropolises, and
1 country with 14 metropolises.